# RenTech: The Company that "Solved the Market" 

Renaissance Technologies LLC was officially founded in 1982 when the hedge fund Limroy was renamed. It is founded by Jim Simons but a number of key players were involved in the company's growth such as James Ax, Sandor Straus, Elwyn Berklekamp, Henry Laufer, and Peter Brown. Renaissance Technologies LLC, or RenTech, operates in the quantitative trading domain and its (mostly) employee-owned Medallion fund is regarded as the most successful hedge fund in history. RenTech's two equity funds, RIEF and RIDA have also enjoyed above average success. 

Jim Simons is a renowned mathmatecian and cryptologist who left academia in 1978 with one goal in mind: beating the market. But Simons would not do this the traditional way by pouring over corporate balance sheets and reading market studies or by becoming privy to insider information by rubbing elbows with CEOs (more common and the rules less strict during that time). Simons wanted to use market data to predict the market's future moves, and wanted to act on this knowledge. And while Simons was not alone in this endeavor (a few competitors were always in the mix such as DE Shaw, AQR Capital, Citadel, etc.) he was one of few, initially, who aimed to remove people from the trading process entirely; wanting to automate all trades made by the fund. In this way, RenTech relies on financial technology in two ways: making predictions based on statistically sound triggers rather than instinct and executing trades at an optimal time and volume without human intervention. 

The Medallion fund's main strategy is to maintain a market neutral portfolio and primarily gains from short term (holding contracts for around 24-48 hours before selling) future and options trading. While the complete understanding of how the fund's model operates is confidential, it's known the company heavily utilizes C and C++ and is an excellent example of machine learning. RenTech takes in, cleans, and stores massive amounts of market data and alternate data such as satelite video, news headlines, and weather to look for pricing patterns and correlations. And while the Medallion Fund has been crowned champion just for its sheer size, it also measures up against the best hedge funds by other metrics such as annual returns and its Sharpe ratio, which guages the performance of a portfolio after adjusting for its risk. Since 2002, the fund has averaged almost 40% net returns; also it is generally noted that a Sharpe score of 1-2 is very good amd by all estimates (Medallion does not release its earnings to the public) Medallion has been above 2 for the last decade. 

Around 2004, Medallion's returns were both impressive and consistent but the size of Medallion was a growing concern at RenTech. Simons was of the belief that if Medallion got any bigger, its trading would start to do more harm than good. So in order to continue expanding, RIEF and RIDA were formed. RIEF and RIDA are equity funds and they primarily use the long term predicitive signals that Medallion had no use for. It also accepted the clients Medallion would not and had investors flocking to it, with an inital investment of 14 billion dollars. RIEF and RIDA use more traditional finance strategies, such as buying low and selling high and it's triggers stem more from balance sheet data. RIEF and RIDA are primarily intended for pension funds and large institutions. 




